.. _validation_concentrating_solar_power_label:

Concentrating solar power
===================================

Scope
_____

To validate the component 'concentrating_solar_power' irradiance data from the
location of andasol for 2019 is used. The direct normal irradiance and the
horizontal direct irradiance are given. So the two irradiance methods 'normal'
and 'horizontal' of the component are analysed. The collector is determinate by
parameters, which correspond to the loss method 'Andasol'. Thus only this
loss method is analysed. The measured collector heat output of the collector is
compared to the calculated heat output.

Method
_______

The component concentrating solar power is used to calculate the collector heat
for one year. Therefor the parameters for the collector and the location are
used. The results for both irradiance methods are compared to the real data.
The script of this calculations can be found in the examples of the
concentrating solar power. The results can be found there two.

Results
_______
The following pictures show the collector heat of the two methods and the real
data for a whole year, for a summer week with full storage, a summer week with
a not full storage and for a winter week.

The pictures and the results show a good equivalence between measured and
calculated data. The earnings per year only differed by -1.5 and 2 percent
respectively.

In the curve of the yields one can see that the measured power increases later
in the day. This is due to the heating of the collector field, which is not
reflected by the component. A reason for this is that the time of this heating
depends strongly on the configuration of the collector field and can be given
therefore badly.

It can also be seen that the calculated yields in summer are higher than the
measured ones. A look at the graph of the two summer weeks shows where a large
part of the deviation comes from. In the first week the storage is always full
at noon. Therefore, no more collector yield can be used and the collector field
is partially curtailed. In the second week the storage tank does not reach its
maximum filling level. Here it can be seen that the measured values correspond
much better with the calculated values.

The large deviation, which can be seen in the course of the year at the
beginning of December, is attributed to maintenance work or similar, so that
the collectors could not achieve the possible yields there.



